April 20, 1989 at Texas A&M concerning the Vietnam
War. In the interest of accumulating knowledge
about the war, I'm going to donate this tape to
Texas A&M oral history collection in the
university archives. Is that okay with you? Yes,
that's fine. Okay. Why did you volunteer to go to
Vietnam and what was the date of your first tour? I
did not initially volunteer to go to Vietnam. I
went at the convenience of the service. But I
volunteered for the military Why I volunteered
for the military was simply probably the Southern
tradition of I saw the uniform and it really jazzed
me up. Basically, I and three friends went down and
volunteered. When I got into the service in 1967,
the manpower needs were pretty strong. in Vietnam
and the military just arbitrarily picked a number
of us and sent us to Vietnam and that's how I got
there the first tour.
What was your understanding of the purpose of the
war before you went? My understanding before I
went of the purpose of the war is that we were trying
to stop the communist advance in Southeast Asia.
much the domino theory stuff. We were there to make
the people of South Vietnam free and
simultaneously keep the communists from taking
over all of Asia.
And what were your opinions of the president
before the war? Opinions of LBJ?
Really, to tell you the truth, I don't think I even
had an opinion of LBJ other than the fact that he was
The president, he was from Texas, and that was
about it. I had no opinion one way or the other, to
tell you the truth. Okay, how old were you? Let's
see, in 1967. Eighteen. How did your opinions
change as far as your understanding of the purpose
of the war? I guess you didn't have any opinions
specifically of the president, but how did they
change during your experience there? Well, my
opinions of the war changed during the time that I
was there. How did it change, as I was saying? How
did it change? Well, basically the way it changed
was we had captured a North Vietnamese soldier who
had been, prior to being in service, had been a
professor of mathematics in Hanoi. And when we had
captured him, he had agreed to become what was
called a Kit Carson scout. They basically were
people that came to work then for us. And we used
them for translators and for intelligence
gathering and all that. Kind of like the Indians
with the cavalry back in the old west. And we were
all sitting around one night getting drunk. And he
told me that the only difference between me and him
was that I wanted to go home to the U.S. and chase
women, and he wanted to go back north and chase
women, and that other than that, we had no
difference. And it dawned on me after a period of
time that he was right, that they were just like us,
that they weren't communists, they were just
people. And so my attitude became one then, if they
were just people, what were we doing here? And then
I began to question what Johnson and Westmoreland
said at that time about Johnson's big speeches
about the flag in Asia and all that. And I began to
wonder, what is that man talking about? We really
don't even belong here. Was that during your first
tour? That was probably late in my first tour that I
began to wonder, why am I here? And, okay, I guess
just to give us an overview, can you tell, I guess,
the dates and place of your three tours? Okay. The
first time I went over was November the 17th, 1967,
and came back September 5th or 6th, I believe, in
68. Then went back again in late October of 68. And
don't remember when I came back then, but went
again in 70 and came back in early 71, like January
71. Where was I? I was essentially out based at Da
Nang. I was with the Navy Medical Corps. And if I
recall right, it was the official name was Medical
Headquarters Group out of Da Nang.
And what else? Where was I? About three years in Da
Nang. Yes. Do you know about the way the military
works, especially between the Navy and the Marine
Corps? Not really. I was going to ask you at
service. All right. I was with the Navy. The Marine
Corps is essentially a part of the Navy. It
operates semi-autonomously. But in order not to
duplicate some services, although they do
duplicate other services, like you'll find Navy
pilots and Marine Corps pilots, and you'll
find... Marine Corps cooks and Navy cooks, but you
will not find Navy medical personnel and Marine
Corps medical personnel. The Marine Corps drafts
those personnel from the Navy. So I was in the Navy,
and I was what was called a hospital corpsman,
which is what the Army calls a medic. And so I was in
the Navy, attached to a Navy unit, but loaned out to
a Marine Corps unit, so to speak. So I was, my
attachment was with the 1st Marine Division, 5th
Marines, which was based out of Da Nang, if I
recall. I think that was their official
headquarters. So you didn't really, did you go
into any combat? Yes, you went, you were attached
to a Marine Corps unit And you went where they went.
And you went however they went. If they walked, you
walked. If they flew, you flew. If they went in
helicopters, you went in helicopters. You went in
and you came out the same way they did. Hopefully
that was a lie.
But essentially you dressed like they did. The
only difference was that you wore a Marine Corps
uniform, but you wore a Navy insignia on it. Okay.
You looked like them. You dressed like them. You
moved and ate like them. You did everything they
did except that you were technically a
noncombatant. Did you have training for this?
Yes. You go through Navy training and then you go
through Marine Corps training and then you go
where they go. Okay. So when I went in, I went
through Navy boot camp. Then I went through Navy
hospital school. Then I went through Marine Corps
boot camp. And then if you were going to go with,
say, a specialized unit like a recon team, which
would be the equivalent of a Green Beret team, then
you went through that special recon training as
well. And then you went wherever they went.
So that's how I got attached to the Marine Corps.
you were, because you were technically a
non-combatant, you were issued a weapon for your
personal defense. And you theoretically were not
supposed to use this weapon in an offensive or
combative role. You were only supposed to use it
just to protect yourself from being killed. That
sidearm, it was a sidearm, it was a .45 pistol. Most
corpsmen that I knew The weapon was in such sad
state of repair that we grabbed whatever weapon we
could find after that. You know, I personally had a
.357 revolver, a Smith & Wesson revolver that I
carried in a shoulder holster. But we looked just
like Marines. The only thing was we carried a
medical kit. Now, you've seen the World War II
pictures where they had the little red cross and
all that, the little arm brassers. Okay, you were
issued those. but you learned very quickly not to
wear those because they made outstanding
targets. So you immediately put the brassard in
your pocket or in your medical kit or just flat
threw it away and you got something to cover that
red cross up on your helmet. that World War II was
much different, or at least what you see in the
movies was much different than the way it really
went down in Vietnam. Nobody wore the Red Cross
unless they wanted to die. Okay. Next, while we're
on the subject of the military, what were your
opinions of military leadership?
Opinions of military leadership. Depends on what
level. The very highest level I thought was very
ignorant. They did not know what was going on. They
would come into the country for what was called a
commanding general's inspection. He'd be there
three hours. They'd run him around the base, show
him a few things, show him some super-duper
weapons, and he'd go home thinking that we were
beating the world. You know, the day-to-day
leadership had more experience because they were
there. And they saw the problems, and they saw that
the textbook would not always work, or they saw
where the textbook would work. But generally you
saw no higher... Oh, I don't guess I really ever saw
much higher than maybe a Marine Corps colonel who
was actually on a day-to-day basis. I'm talking
about actually in the field situation. In the
offices back in the headquarters areas, I'm sure
they had generals and like that. It was the field
leadership was very wise. They knew what was going
on. They were out there fighting it with us. The
upper leadership, especially in the case of like
General Westmoreland and some of those, I don't
think they ever knew what the picture really was.
They had what they thought the picture was, and it
was generally fundamentally wrong. Did you learn
this pretty quickly? Yeah, about the first week or
two. You learn very quickly or you die, you know. I
had my first rude shock about the military the
first time that I ever got out of a helicopter. When
we had practice back in the States, the helicopter
would come in and it would be like about two feet off
the ground and it would stop and everybody would
jump out, right? Okay. In Vietnam, with people
shooting at you, the helicopter maybe got
somewhere between 10 or 12 feet from the ground,
sometimes closer, and it didn't exactly stop. It
just came to a slow move, and you got out the best way
you knew how. Sometimes they would stop, just
depending on what the situation we were in. Also,
when I realized that... the first time people were
actually shooting at you, you know, and that they
really weren't afraid of because you weren't
American, you know. That didn't bother them the
least bit. It wasn't like I'm an American, you
know, the whole world stops for me. And you realize
that some of your leadership, you know, you're in
the middle of a serious firefight. I mean, you're
pinned down. And this guy says, follow me over the
top like John Wayne, and you think, this guy's out
of this hole, you know? And so you learned real
quick or you died.
How did you adapt to your first time there and was
this adaptation easier than your second and
third? I mean, was your second and third easier
than the first? Okay, how did I adapt the first time
I was there? The way I adapted the first time that I
was there was probably I just flushed out of my mind
everything that everybody had taught me and went
back to some real basic survival type instincts.
Also had help of a sergeant whose name was Coyne. He
was from, it was kind of really unusual spelling,
it was K-O-I-N-N-E, you know. And he was from New
Orleans, and he had been in country for, I don't
know, I think at least one tour, probably more. In
fact, I'm pretty sure it was more. And he decided
that for some reason or the other, that I was too
stupid to survive on my own, and that he was going to
kind of take me under his wing. And it's kind of like
you see all these movies of a father taking a young
son out, teaching him about the woods. Well, this
was kind of what this guy was doing. He was taking me
out and teaching me that, okay, look, I know they
taught you this in boot camp. Let me show you how it
really is. And, you know, I... I credit that
probably with keeping me alive. He told me that
there were times to stand up and run, and there were
times to keep your head down and run, and times not
to run at all. And that paid off in my second and
third tours in that I managed to get back in at least
one piece and alive. And I would say probably had it
not been for him, had it not been from training from
someone who had been there and knew the ropes, that
I probably would have gotten killed more. Almost
did as it was. He had some close calls. Yeah, we had a
few. How did you relate to the South Vietnamese
people, and did you have any previous cultural
training? Previous cultural training? None
whatsoever. How did I relate to the South
Vietnamese people? At first, the South
Vietnamese people were... It's probably like
going into any foreign country. The South
Vietnamese people have their own strange way of
doing things.
First of all, they're shorter than we are for the
most part, so you are a giant wherever you go, which
makes you feel pretty good until somebody bigger
than you comes along. They have some unusual ways
of doing things, and at first you get the
impression that these people are... that they're
stupid, they're backwards. To some extent, you
think that they're a little weird in that... Have
you ever read this book, Backfire? Uh-huh, yeah, I
read it. Okay. He talks about one of the really
things in there that's interesting about South
Vietnamese that apparently a good deal of the
military never learned was that South Vietnamese
men can walk down the street holding hands. Okay.
Okay. Well, here, we don't think that's quite so
cool. So, you know, you're sitting there and
you're watching this. You've been in country
maybe three or four days, and you're watching
these guys walking down the street holding hands.
And you're thinking, these two guys are funny.
Then everybody starts doing it in South Vietnam,
and you think the whole country's funny. After a
while, though... at least in my mind, was that you
begin to want to see some of the country and see the
customs. Because, you know, we didn't fight all
the time we were there. I mean, there were times
that you would be absolutely bored to tears for two
or three weeks at a time. And then you may be
fighting solid two or three weeks at a time. But for
the most part, we didn't fight every day. That's
kind of one of the things that people think that we
did, that we fought 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
We really didn't. You know, you might be... two or
three weeks, just bored out of your mind, and then
have a two or three hour fight. And then you got
liberty, you know, like R&R or, you know, a pass,
okay? And so I went to Saigon. And I fell in love with
my first love in Saigon. I fell in love with part
Chinese, part Vietnamese, part French girl. And
Because you fall in love, you start learning a
whole lot about people and culture, you know, and
just the things that you do when you fall in love. I
mean, you know, we would go to markets and stuff,
and, you know, I mean, when you're in love, you do
whatever that other person wants to do, you know.
And she wanted to go to the market. Okay, what are
you going to do? You know, you want to be with her?
You go to the market. And you just can't help but
learning things, you know. And that's where I
began first learning about self and these people.
You can also get drunk with them. They'll tell you a
whole lot of good things about them. We read
Backfire for our class. Do you agree with most of
the things that he's saying in the book, or do you
have any disagreements with him? Insofar as he
talks about the American attitude toward the war
and the notion of American exceptionalism and how
that arose, I 100% agree with him on that. Now, some
of the other things about how decisions were made,
I'm going to have to assume that he has had benefit
of documents that I haven't had. And so I'd have to
assume that he's right, and I really don't have an
opinion one way or the other. What about on our, I
guess, total lack of understanding of the
entities? That, for the most part, is true. Did you
see that with other... Yes, I saw that. I would say
that there were...
Of the soldiers that were in my unit, about 100
soldiers, there were maybe four that really had
any kind of understanding of how Vietnam worked at
all and how the people lived. The rest of them just
seemed to hate them. They hated them because we
were there. They hated them because they resisted
what we did. They hated them because it was
Tuesday. They just hated them. They hated them.
They hated the enemy. They just hated everything.
There were maybe four or five people in a unit that
would either, for whatever reason, would try to
understand the Vietnamese and understand Just
understand the culture and the way of life. Maybe
not a particular person, but just understand how
can these people be like this and would spend the
effort. Can you understand the frustrations that
built up to have something like a My Life or a thing?
I can understand the frustrations that built up. I
can't understand the wholesale killing. Yes, I
can very readily understand the frustrations.
You see, back in the States, prior to the Tet
Offensive of 68,
y'all were told, the people in the States were told
that we were winning the war. Well, we were told the
same thing. We're in Vietnam fighting the war.
When the Tet Offensive came down, of course, we're
there, so we're the first ones to know. And you
don't know what's going on all over the country,
but you knew what was happening right where you
were at. And we were getting the hell beat out of us
right where I was at. And so we begin, you know,
first of all, we're trying to stay alive. You're
trying to figure out at the same time how this
happened. Try to figure out what's going on, you
know. And then you don't believe your leaders,
okay? You don't believe your leaders. You don't
believe the South Vietnamese because from our
experience, they lied to us all the time. You don't
understand why these people don't want to be
democratized. You don't understand why you're
there. You're just frustrated with your
military, with the people in the country, and with
yourself. And you're just totally mad at
everybody. So I can understand the frustration. I
can't understand it to the point that I'm going to
take a weapon and just go out and just massacre some
woman or some children or some old man, you know, as
a way to work off my frustrations. I just don't
believe that I could have ever done that. Did you
have any experience with V.C.? ? Yeah. The one guy
that we captured, the one I was telling you about,
he was a VC. Well, actually, he was an NVA, North
Vietnamese Army. He was a regular, a professional
soldier. VC, we captured, for the most part, the
understanding at the VC that I had were that they
were, first of all, everybody in Vietnam is
basically illiterate. Not everybody, but for the
most part the population is illiterate. They live
off of tradition. And it is very easy to whip some
people into, if you go in to lay some propaganda on
them and whip them up. Since they had been fighting
from what they thought was imperialism for many,
many years, it was not hard for the NVA to whip them
up into thinking that we were just the same
imperialistic dogs that the French were. Some
others weren't fighting from this high notion of
nationalism. Some of them were actually
impressed. I mean, the VC or the NBA or VC went out
and said, you're now in the military. You either
fight or you die, or we kill your parents, or your
mother, father, sister, wife, or whatever. And so
they were kind of forced conscripts. For the most
part, they were generally fairly poorly trained.
fairly bad soldiers, and generally the life of a VC
was probably not too long because he was not a
professional soldier. Not that the life of a
professional soldier was all that much longer,
but I'd say that being made a VC was almost nearly
suicide.
Did your opinions of the South Vietnamese change
during the war? No, well, yes, I guess it did. When I
first went over, I didn't know what South
Vietnamese was, except that they were about 5'2",
and that they had slanted eyes, and they were these
little people who talked real funny, and they were
being victimized by this mean old communist up
north, and that they were kind of backwards and all
that. And so that was what was basically told to us
and the impression that I got as I went over. After I
got there, my impression changed. That
impression stayed with me and has not changed to
this date. I think the South Vietnamese people are
people just like anybody else. I think that they
have their own way of doing things. They have their
own culture, their own traditions, their own
notions of what Vietnam is. And in that regard, I
don't have a change of opinion. I don't
particularly think their way is any better or
worse than ours. I just think it's different. The
only part of the population that I have a worry
about is probably the Amerasians, the children of
Vietnamese and Americans, that a good deal of them
apparently are still in Vietnam. And I understand
that they... that they're kind of like lepers or
treated like lepers, that they make their living
by being prostitutes or black marketeers or that
the Vietnamese don't like them. And our soldiers
just basically abandoned them. And I've got some
wonders about, on the part of our government,
whether or not it's fair to leave those people
there. But then again, what are you going to do
about getting them out? That's the other
question. But no, my opinions towards the South
Vietnamese hadn't changed. Okay, as far as I've
read a lot about problems with drugs and then with
careerism, do you have any comments about that?
Problems with drugs? You mean like were there
drugs there? Well, did you see it? Oh, you bet. Big
time. Drug use in Vietnam was big time. There were
instances that I saw and that I knew of where, in
fact, the South Vietnamese military was the
biggest drug pushers in certain areas of anybody.
Also, you've got to consider something about
American soldiers and American people. American
people are used to leisure, having things to do.
Football, baseball, tennis, going to... the
Dixie chicken or whatever. And a lot of times in
Vietnam it was miserably boring. You would spend a
couple of three weeks just doing day-to-day
mundane chores. How would you like to spend your
entire eight-hour day putting sand into canvas
bags and stacking these bags up for your fire camp
and then doing that for two or three solid weeks? So
you get kind of bored, right? And then at night, you
get to lay inside of this nifty fire camp that you
built and listen to a radio. And that's about your
whole life in Vietnam there for that period while
you're in this base camp. So people have to have
something to do. You're frustrated. Your life is
boring. You don't know whether you're going to die
a minute from now, a week from now, whatever. So
drugs became kind of a way of people drinking to
forget their problems. Drug usage in certain
places was real big. Certain other places is
almost unheard of. Would I say 50% of American
servicemen use drugs or 30% or 10%? I'd say
probably in the younger group, probably 80% or
more. Younger group being 22 or younger, you know.
But that was also the age of people that were
drafted, and a good deal of those had come into the
service with drug histories at home. So, you know,
I mean, they may have brought some of that with
them. I don't know. But, yeah, there was a good deal
of drug usage. Okay. Careerism, I don't know that I
know what you mean by careerism. People wanting to
go to Vietnam to put it on their resume that they
were an officer. If they were an officer, going to
Vietnam would sometimes get them over the hump.
Everybody knew the war would be over one of these
days, and that in peacetime military, it's almost
impossible to be promoted beyond a certain level.
So a good deal of these officers would, at least in
my line of thinking, would go to Vietnam, serve
some rather rinky-dink tour, You know, but be able
to say that, you know, I was in Vietnam and then
could progress and rank. You know, I would say that
the under officers or the lower level officers
like lieutenants and captains and, you know, like
that probably, I would say they're probably some
of them that were like ladder climbers, but I'd say
for the most part they were doing like the rest of
us. They just wanted to live through it all and get
home. Why did you volunteer for subsequent tours?
Because I was dumb. Okay. But how are these tours
different from the first as far as seeing a change
in the type of combat and then attitudes of
soldiers? Okay. Why did I volunteer for
subsequent tours? Okay. I volunteered for kind of
a combination of reasons. One of them was after I'd
done my first tour, I went back to the States, and I
went back to, well, I went home on leave. You know,
you get 30 days leave, and I went home. And my little
brother is like a year younger than I am. And my
little brother's got this real John Wayne
mentality. Well, they have this thing in the
military that they won't send two sons to a war
zone. They'll let them both be in the service, but
they won't send them both to the war zone. So I
pretty much figured my little brother was one of
those fools that would run him over the top and do
like John Wayne and get himself blown away
completely. So if I went back to Vietnam, he
couldn't go because he would be the sole surviving
son. That was one reason. Another reason was that
when I went to the Naval Hospital in San Diego,
what was going to be my assigned duty for the next
three years was going to be real mundane tasks. And
I decided that I wasn't going to spend the rest of my
career in the military being bored out of my mind.
The third reason was that there was a program that
people that would volunteer, they would give you a
cut off your enlistment, off your active tour of
duty.
Originally, when I volunteered for six years
active, I thought, boy, I do not want to be here
doing this for the next five years. So if you
volunteer for a tour, they would cut your
enlistment like six months or nine months or a
year, whatever. And so for a combination of all
those reasons is why I went for the subsequent
tours. What were the differences?
Oh, probably...
differences? Well, in 67 we thought we were
winning. After 68 we knew we weren't.
We had heard discussions about the truce talks and
the peace talks and everything. And we figured
that sooner or later that somebody was going to
come up with some kind of peaceful deals and we
could get out of Vietnam. And so basically we just
sort of fought defensively then. All we wanted to
do was Keep up from killing us. We weren't really so
worried about whether we were going to win or
whether we were going to lose. We just didn't want
to die. And just keep our head down, do your tour,
and go home. It's like going to see a bad movie. You
just want to get the thing over with so that you can
leave. So that was about it. the attitude. Now, I
mean, that's not to say that we didn't try to fight
battles. A lot of times you would have to fight a
battle, and you would have to try to win just to stay
alive, but I think the attitude was not so much one
of winning as much as it was just trying to stay
alive. Okay, what about as far as the attitudes of
the people that were there? You mean American
soldiers that were there? Yeah, yeah. Pretty much
everybody had the same attitude, you know. We had
what we called... base camp commandos who were
these guys that would do the John Wayne bit. And
pretty much everybody made fun of them and tried to
stay away from them because that was the kind of guy
that'd get you killed. The rest of us took care of
each other. You take care of me, I take care of you.
We just try to keep each other alive until you can go
home.
Nobody really wanted to fight because everybody
really thought it was kind of futile. We weren't
winning. We weren't going to win. All we wanted to
do was do our 11 months and go home and try to get home
in one piece. You really thought that you weren't
going to win? No. After the 68 test, I don't think
that anybody really thought we would win. except
for maybe the military leaders. I would say that
the average soldier, I'm talking about average
actual real combat soldier, a guy that was
actually out there shooting, I would think that he
probably figured that the best we could do was
fight to a draw. You know, that given the political
situation at home and...
you know, given the curtailment on the military
that the best we could hope for was a drop. Now, we
all thought that we could win, you know, that we had
the stuff, you know, to win if we were allowed to
win. But we felt like we weren't allowed to win. How
do you mean? Well, we felt like the military and the
government back home was actually hampering us
with this notion of limited war. Because they
talked about limited bombing of the North. Our
feeling was that you either go out and you fight a
real war or you don't fight a war. That there's no
such thing as a limited fight. Kind of goes back to
the notion of like, did you ever get in fights when
you were a little kid? When I was a little kid, the
way you fought was you always fought the guy. And if
you knocked him on the ground, you didn't jump on
top of him. You let him get back up. Or you never hit
below the belt. That's limited war. What really
happens? Generally, if you knock the guy down, you
pile in on top of him because now you've got the
advantage and you're going to beat his brains out.
And if he's piled all over you, you forget about
hitting below the belt. You hit him wherever you
can hit him. Well, that's what we felt like, that
these rules were placed on us, that they were like
those rules, that either we were really going to
fight or we were just going to go home, that given
the situation, the best we could hope for was just a
draw. So since we weren't going to win, And
presumably we weren't going to lose. We were just
going to drop. There was no real reason to go out and
really do anything because you're liable to get
yourself killed. And the whole idea was to stay
alive and go home. What would you have preferred
that we had done as far as military strategy? Not
gotten there in the first
place. In 65 or 66, I believe it was, the... I
believe it was the Marine Corps had a strategy that
I think the Army popularized it really. It was
called search and destroy. And we would basically
sweep in on a known or what was supposed to be known
VC area. And they would come in like a big pair of
pliers and they would just close those pliers
down. And they would destroy the military village
at a fight of the VC. And if that meant burning the
food, burning the village, or actually we didn't
just burn the village, we burned anything that
would be of any military value to the VC. One of the
cute things that I thought was that we also burned
the food, or we poisoned it. While it was also of
military value to the VC, it was the people in the
villages whose food we were tearing up. I always
thought, well, that's kind of unusual to me, that
we're going to whip the VC by whipping the civilian
populace. I mean, if it was like an area that was a
known B.C. holdup, we would have this plier
movement, and we would just pinch them in, close
them in, and then just squeeze it down until we
choked the military fighting ability out of them.
That meant killing all of them, and that was what
you had to do. And it depended on who you got around.
If it was the B.C., you might get him to surrender.
If it was a North Vietnamese regular, you were
pretty much going to have to kill him. He was a good
soldier. He was a professional soldier, and he was
not going to give up. It's kind of like the picture
of the Japanese kamikaze guys during World War II.
The North Vietnamese soldier was so well trained
and so well disciplined that you were probably
going to have to kill him. You were not going to get
him to give up. Did you feel as though the American
government and top military people did not
realize that the North Vietnamese were not going
to give up with the policy of attrition and those
kinds of ideas? Did I think that that's what they
thought? Yeah, that's very definitely what I
think they thought. I do not think that our
government, with the exception of maybe a few
people, but I think they were in the minority. I
think that they felt that Westmoreland's war of
attrition would eventually work. And I think
that, I believe it was General Jopp, or maybe it was
Ho, who many years before had said that he would
fight. How long did we want to fight? 10 years? 20
years? 50 years? They would fight however long we
wanted to fight, and in the end, they would win. And
I think we should have read Ho's book a lot closer
than we did. They were going to win. Either that or
we were going to have to physically go into North
Vietnam and just take the war to them and destroy
them. Do you think that we should have gone into
North Vietnam? Well, it depends.
It depends on whether you want to look at it from the
military point of view or whether you want to look
at it on the moralistic point of view. If you want to
look at it on the military point of view in that To
win this war, we've got to go into Vietnam. We're
not going to consider the moral aspect of whether
we've been there or not. Yes, we should have gone
into North Vietnam. Even with the prospect of
China? I don't really think that the prospect of
China was quite as much as everybody made it out to
be, especially it seems to me. Now, there were a
good deal of Chinese weaponry, but I think that was
really kind of overblown. And some stuff that I've
heard subsequent from some people that were
relatively believable military people have said
that the notion of China coming into the war was
much larger than China's real ability to get into
the war. I don't think that they would have
actually committed the ravaging forces like they
did or are supposed to have done in Korea.
From the military point of view, yes, I think we
should have gone into the north. From the
moralistic point of view, I don't think we should
have ever got there in the beginning. I think we
should have listened to the French and should have
read Ho's book. I think we should have just
basically stayed home.
Well, I guess it has to do with my question as far as,
did you feel when you first went over there that we
were justified in being there? And when did you
change your mind? When I went there, yes, I felt we
were justified. Because I didn't know any better.
I mean, I listened to Lyndon Johnson and all the
people back home. The draft Dodger bit and all
this. There's this cultural engravement in
people. Do you want your parents to think that
you're a draft dodger? Do you want to have to leave
your country and go to Canada? Or do you want to go to
prison? Those are some questions you have to ask.
But on the other hand, when we went and when I went
and the people that I went with, We got there, and
for the first little while, some people it took
longer, some people it took a very short time, some
people never learned it, and some people was that
we really thought we were doing the right thing. I
mean, people have asked me, why did you ever go to
Vietnam? I went to Vietnam because I thought I was
doing the right thing. When I was in Vietnam, my job
was a medic. All I wanted to do was I wanted to make
sure that this soldier, that I kept him alive so
that he could go home. I wanted to be the very best
medic that the United States military ever had. I
wanted to do my job because I thought it was right.
It took a little while for me to figure out that it
wasn't quite right, but at first we went because we
really thought that was the right thing. And we
were proud. And I mean, we were really proud. We
thought that we were fighting communists, making
these people free. And that's what we really
believed. I had some friends who were in ships off
the coast that were just bombarding the hell out of
Vietnam. We would talk to them, and they really
thought they were doing the right thing. We all
really thought we were doing the right thing. I
think that probably changed After the Tet, we
began to wonder, what the hell are we doing? And
then later, as the war drug on, I think the attitude
was really just, I'm caught up in the system. I just
want to do my time and go. Even the people that were
coming there for the first time, just initially?
That's kind of a real iffy one. Some of them really
thought they were doing the right thing. Some of
them thought, oh my God, this is my worst
nightmare. Some of them really thought they were
doing the wrong thing, that they had been caught up
in the system and that they couldn't fight the
system.
I'd say probably the first attitude. You could
always tell when a new guy came into your camp or
something. He was the guy that was going to make the
world a safer democracy, kill communists and all
that. You thought, oh my God, let me get away from
this guy. He's going to get me killed. You know? But
I'd say that probably 1970 the attitude was just do
your time and go. Did you see any racial problems?
Yeah. You're talking about between American
soldiers? Blacks. Blacks and whites, yes. There
was a good deal of racial problems. Why, I never
really understand. There was just a good deal of
it. I really don't understand why, to tell you the
truth. I never really thought about it. I just know
that it existed. Fighting? There would be some
fighting sometimes, but you've got to
understand, people in the military, if they don't
have anybody else to fight, they'll fight amongst
themselves, too.
So, I mean, you had to discount it somewhat there.
There was... I don't think there was any like...
Anybody that would want to just fight just because
this guy was black. Although there may have been,
you know. I really never thought about it, you
know. I know it existed. I saw fighting between the
races. I saw lots of racial slurs. I saw
Confederate flags. You know, I just really never
thought about why. What type of reactions from the
public, your family, and your friends did you
receive when I came home? Not real good. Oh,
that's great. I can remember when I came back, I was
in San Francisco, and we were in the airport, and,
you know, we were in our uniform and all that, and,
you know, We thought it was going to be like at the
end of World War II. America's soldiers coming
home. We're going to get ticker tape. People are
going to be proud of us. I remember a girl that
walked up to me. Like I said, I was a medic. She
walked up and she was extremely belligerent. And
she kept asking, how many people did you kill? How
many babies did you burn? How many women did you
ban? How many women did you rape? And I thought,
what the hell is this woman talking about? And then
the attitude was a lot more. My family, you know. My
mother was real proud. Her boy had made it home for
one reason. She would take me around to see all her
friends. All I just wanted to do was quiet time.
She would take me around to see all her friends like
a little animal in a zoo or something. Some of them
would be happy and some of them would look at me like
this is one of them killers over there.